We previously learned how we can
pass arguments into a function.
We can do more than pass
information into a function.
We can also send information out of one!
Return statements allow us to do this.
A return statement is a Python statement
that executes inside a function and
sends information back
to the function call.
This ability to send information back
from a function is useful to a security
analyst in various ways.
As one example, an analyst might
have a function that checks
whether someone is allowed to
access a particular file and
will return a Boolean value of "True" or
"False" to the larger program.
We'll explore another example.
Let's create a function related
to analyzing login attempts.
Based on the information it takes in,
this function will compute
the percentage of failed attempts and
return this percentage.
The program could use this
information in a variety of ways.
For example, it might be used to determine
whether or not to lock an account.
So let's get started and learn how to
return information from a function.
Just like before, we start by defining our
function. We'll name it calculate fails()
and we'll set two parameters
related to login attempts:
one for total_attempts and
one for failed_attempts.
Next, we'll tell Python what we
want this function to do.
We want this function to store
the percentage of failed attempts in
a variable called fail_percentage.
We need to divide failed_attempts by
total_attempts to get this percentage.
So far, this is similar to what
we've learned previously. But now,
let's learn how to return
the fail percentage.
To do this,
we need to use the keyword return.
Return is used to return
information from a function.
In our case, we'll return
the percentage we just calculated.
So after the keyword return,
we’ll type fail_percentage.
This is our variable that
contains this information.
Now, we're ready to call this function.
We'll calculate the percentage for
a user who has logged in 4 times
with 2 failed attempts.
So, our arguments are 4 and 2.
When we run this,
the function returns the percentage of
failed attempts. It’s .5, or 50 percent,
but in some Python environments,
this might not be printed to the screen.
We cannot use the specific variable named
fail_percentage
outside of the function.
So, in order to use this information
in another part of the program,
we would need to return the value from the
function and assign it to a new variable.
Let's check this out.
This time, when the function is called,
the value that's returned is stored
in a variable called percentage.
Then, we can use this
variable in additional code.
For example, we can write a conditional
that checks if the percentage
of failed attempts is greater than or
equal to 50 percent.
When this condition is met, we can tell
Python to print an "Account locked" message.
Let's run this code.
And this time, the percentage
isn't returned to the screen.
Instead, we get the “Account locked”
message.
Coming up, we'll discuss more functions,
but this time,
we'll go over a few that are ready for
use and built in to Python!